Add InnerSource principles to list of draft patterns (#325)
gruetter/innerSourceTest: patterns/1-initial/principles.md

## Title

> _Explicit InnerSource principles_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Explicit InnerSource Principles
```

## Patlet

InnerSource as a term is circulating among employees. The usual explanation of
"applying Open Source best practices inside an organisation" does not work well
though with people lacking an Open Source background. As a remedy the most
important principles of InnerSource get published widely.

## Problem

> The organisation is trying to role out InnerSource at a larger scale. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The organisation is trying to roll out InnerSource at a larger scale. The
```

> initiative started among Open Source enthusiasts. The goal is now to get buy in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
initiative started among Open Source enthusiasts. The goal is now to get buy-in
```

> from people that are lacking Open Source experience. As a result the typical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from people that are lacking Open Source experience. For that audience the typical
```

Rewording to make it clear why a new communication approach is required.

slogan of "applying Open Source best practices" is not longer sufficient to
transport the message of what InnerSource is, which problems it solves and which
tools it uses for solving these issues.

> 

Reviewer: I think more information could be added here about how the Problem manifests in the org.

It could be as simple as:
> Due to that the organisation is failing to convince further people/teams of the benefits of InnerSource, and the roll-out of InnerSource in the organisation is slowing down significantly.

Reviewer: I changed my mind on this one. no change needed.

> ## Context

Reviewer: Did you really mean to use "Context" here or maybe rather "Story"?
See https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/main/meta/pattern-template.md#story-optional

> In an organisation early experiments have shown that open source collaboration

Reviewer: Which spelling of "Open Source" do you want to go for? Right now there are both, uppercase and lowercase.

Author: lowercase, I'll go through it and change it.

> In an organisation early experiments have shown that open source collaboration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Early experiments in an organisation have shown that open source collaboration
```

I find it easier to read this way around.

best practices can be beneficial. The goal now is to move the initiative to
teams and individuals lacking a deep background in open source.

The goal now is to clearly communicate the goals of the InnerSource initiative
as well as a clear path towards achieving these goals.

## Forces

> Teams have trouble communicating exactly what the important aspects of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Teams have trouble communicating exactly what the important aspects of
```

I suggest to use bullet lists here for the distinct forces, so that readers can check more easily if these apply for them too.

InnerSource are.

> People lacking open source experience fail to understand what it means to bring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* People lacking open source experience fail to understand what it means to bring
```

open source best practices into the organisation.

> On a daily basis teams trying to follow InnerSource best practices have a hard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On a daily basis teams trying to follow InnerSource best practices have a hard
```

time deciding if what they are doing is inline with general InnerSource values.

## Solution

Those involved with the InnerSource initiative in the organisation need to

> understand two perspectives:

Reviewer: Is it really that these are perspectives that they should understand, or are you rather advising them to follow these two steps as part of your solution? I think it is the latter :)

Author: I do mean understand two perspectives. However reading this after a break of a few weeks I see how the phrasing was unclear. What I mean is that those who should adopt InnerSource need to understand these two perspectives - not the ones originally involved with rolling out InnerSource.

Reviewer: The current **Solution** section mostly sounds more like you are talking to "the ones rolling out InnerSource" actually.
However you might have changed your mind there, midway in writing, as it doesn't seem 100% consistent. 😄 

Let me try to make some inline suggestions, and see if those changes increase clarity.

I think that the Solution section should indeed be written for the "the ones rolling out InnerSource", because this pattern would be used by that group, in order to provide more clarity to the rest of the org (the ones that they want to adopt InnerSource).

### Why does the organisation want to adopt InnerSource?

In the past InnerSource has proven to be successful to solve several issues
commonly found in organisations. Instead of going for generalizations, try to
exactly identify the solutions that match the challenges of your organisation -
preferably with those affected by the change you want to see. Some challenges

> that others have addressed by following InnerSource best practices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
preferably with those affected by the change you want to see. 

Some challenges that others have addressed by following InnerSource 
best practices:
```

* Reduce development silos caused by excessive ownership culture.
* Increase innovation speed by reducing time spent solving similar issues by
  fostering healthy code reuse.
* Increase development speed by better cross team collaboration.
* Solve project/ team dependencies beyond "wait it out" and "build workarounds",
  thereby reducing engineering bottlenecks.
* Increase quality.
* Increase employee happiness.
* To increase success of new hires.
* To build actionable documentation.

### Provide clear InnerSource principles

> Once teams understand which problems InnerSource will help them address the next
> step is to explain which basic values help address these challenges. Based on
> basic open source development principles the following guidelines have been
> proven successful:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once teams understand which problems InnerSource will help them address, the next
step is to explain which principles help address these challenges. 

Based on basic open source development principles the following guidelines 
have been proven successful:
```

Not 100% sure if the comma I added is correct.

Also we might want to check one more time at the end if the terms principles/values are used consistently throughout the pattern.

> 1. Code must be transparently hosted within the organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Code must be transparently hosted within the organisation
```

Source code, documentation, data relevant for project development must be
available and easy to find for anyone in the organisation.

> 2. Contributions over feature requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Contributions over feature requests
```

All stakeholders of a project act as potential contributors and are being
treated and supported as such. Contributions remain suggestions instead of
requirements. Coordination before a contribution helps avoid wasted effort.
Projects provide contribution guidelines to avoid friction.

3. Mistakes are opportunities for learning

With work visible across the entire organisation any mistake is visible to
everyone. As a result a culture must be established in which mistakes are
opportunities for learning instead of failure that should be avoided at all
cost.

> 4. Allow written advise to accrete in a persistent, searchable archive

Reviewer: Is there a simpler word for "accrete"?

Author: Strange - I was very convinced that we had been using the word throughout the learning path and patterns in many other locations - except GitHub search just told me that we did not. No idea where I heard it then. How about accumulate?

All project communication, in particular decisions taken and discussions leading
up to those decisions need to be archived. It must be possible to reference
communication via stable URLs. Previous communication needs to be stored in a
way that can easily be searched.

> 5. Written over verbal communication

Reviewer: I wonder if point 4 and 5 should change order?
With that you would first establish that things are written down and then second that the should be archived and searchable.

Author: Likely. It makes sense to first stress working in writing and then archiving what was written down.

For projects that span multiple teams, potentially on diverging meeting
schedules, it needs to be possible to collaborate asynchronously. The goal for
InnerSource projects is to recruit new contributors. For that, potential future
contributors need to be able to follow the project progress on a self serve
basis with a very low barrier to entry. If project relevant communication
happens through synchronous communication, arguments discussed need to be made
transparent in the written channel - decisions should be finalized only there.
As a side effect this leads to passive base documentation that is very valuable
for any newcomer to the project.

Two caveats though:

> This does not replace structured documentation. It can serve as a starting point

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. This does not replace structured documentation. It can serve as a starting point
```

to collect structured documentation though.

> There are exceptions to the rule of everything being written and accessible to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. There are exceptions to the rule of everything being written and accessible to
```

the entire organisation: People related discussions as well as security related
discussions are sensitive and should not be held in public.

6. Reward Trusted Committership

All contributions (e.g. source code, documentation, bug reports, input to
discussions, user support, marketing) are welcome. Contributions are welcome and

> are being rewarded. Those showing support for the project are being invited as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussions, user support, marketing) are welcome and are being rewarded. 
Those showing support for the project are being invited as
```

Removing some repetition.

> Trusted Committers. All Trusted Committers of a project are published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Trusted Committers](../2-structured/trusted-committer.md). All Trusted Committers of a project are published.
```

Opportunity to link to another pattern.

## Resulting Context

> Members of the organisation understand which challenges they can address by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Organisation members understand which challenges they can address by
```

Bullet point plus consistent wording

applying InnerSource best practices.

> Organisation members lacking prior open source experience understand the basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Organisation members lacking prior open source experience understand the basic
```

values and principles of InnerSource projects.

> Organisation members lacking prior open source experience are able to check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Organisation members lacking prior open source experience are able to check
```

their daily doing against a set of common established values.

> The organisation development practices move closer to open source projects thus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The organisation's development practices become more similar to open source projects thus
```

making it easier for organisation members to participate in open source
projects.

## Known Instances

> Europace AG

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Europace AG (see also [Europace InnerSource Prinzipien](https://tech.europace.de/post/europace-inner-source-prinzipien/) (German))
```

Even though this post is in German, still worth referencing for a subset of the readers.

## Status

> draft

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initial
```

"Draft" falls under **Initial** in our [Maturity Levels](https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourcePatterns/blob/main/meta/contributor-handbook.md#in-a-nutshell).

Given that this one even has a Known Instance at Europace already, we can even move this to **Structured** by the end of this PR, if we like.

Author: Sounds good to me.

time deciding if what they are doing is inline with general InnerSource values.

## Solution

Those involved with the InnerSource initiative in the organisation need to
understand two perspectives:

### Why does the organisation want to adopt InnerSource?

In the past InnerSource has proven to be successful to solve several issues
commonly found in organisations. Instead of going for generalizations, try to
exactly identify the solutions that match the challenges of your organisation -
preferably with those affected by the change you want to see. Some challenges
that others have addressed by following InnerSource best practices:

* Reduce development silos caused by excessive ownership culture.
* Increase innovation speed by reducing time spent solving similar issues by
  fostering healthy code reuse.
* Increase development speed by better cross team collaboration.
* Solve project/ team dependencies beyond "wait it out" and "build workarounds",
  thereby reducing engineering bottlenecks.
* Increase quality.
* Increase employee happiness.
* To increase success of new hires.
* To build actionable documentation.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

to collect structured documentation though.

There are exceptions to the rule of everything being written and accessible to
the entire organisation: People related discussions as well as security related
discussions are sensitive and should not be held in public.

6. Reward Trusted Committership

All contributions (e.g. source code, documentation, bug reports, input to
discussions, user support, marketing) are welcome. Contributions are welcome and
are being rewarded. Those showing support for the project are being invited as
Trusted Committers. All Trusted Committers of a project are published.

## Resulting Context

Members of the organisation understand which challenges they can address by
applying InnerSource best practices.

Organisation members lacking prior open source experience understand the basic
values and principles of InnerSource projects.

Organisation members lacking prior open source experience are able to check
their daily doing against a set of common established values.

The organisation development practices move closer to open source projects thus
making it easier for organisation members to participate in open source
projects.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Known Instances

Europace AG

## Status

draft

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Title

Explicit InnerSource Principles

## Patlet

> InnerSource as a term is circulating among employees. The usual explanation of
> "applying open source best practices inside an organisation" does not work well
> though with people lacking an open source background. As a remedy the most
> important principles of InnerSource get published widely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usual InnerSource explanation of "applying open source best practices 
inside an organisation" does not work well with people lacking an 
open source background. As a remedy the most important principles of 
InnerSource get published widely.
```

Shortening the Patlet by moving parts of it to Context.

The diff is unfortunately not that easy to read but I hope you can still see what I changed.

## Problem

The organisation is trying to roll out InnerSource at a larger scale. The
initiative started among open source enthusiasts. The goal is now to get buy-in
from people that are lacking open source experience. For that audience the typical
slogan of "applying open source best practices" is no longer sufficient to
transport the message of what InnerSource is, which problems it solves and which

> tools it uses for solving these issues. As a result InnerSource adoption in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tools it uses for solving these issues. As a result InnerSource adoption in the
```

Reviewer: Merging this as a test to see if the rendered doc will still look correct.

organisation slows down. Teams develop diverging ideas of what the goals of InnerSource
is about and how to best implement it leading to confusion when contributors

> are starting to cross team boundaries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are starting to cross team boundaries.
```

## Story

> Early experiments in an organisation have shown that open source collaboration
> best practices can be beneficial. The goal now is to move the initiative to
> teams and individuals lacking a deep background in open source.
> 
> The goal now is to clearly communicate the goals of the InnerSource initiative
> as well as a clear path towards achieving these goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Early experiments in an organisation have shown that open source collaboration
best practices can be beneficial. The next step now is to move the initiative to
teams and individuals lacking a deep background in open source.

The goal now is to clearly communicate the goals of the InnerSource initiative
as well as a clear path towards achieving these goals.
```

Still repeating "the goal" a bit to often for my liking but at least I go rid of one instance :)

Reviewer: Merging this as it seems non-controversial.

> as well as a clear path towards achieving these goals.

Reviewer: Repetition of "The goal now is".

> ## Forces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Context

* InnerSource as a term is circulating among employees.
* The initiative started among open source enthusiasts. 

## Forces
```

I just realized that the pattern didn't provide a Context block yet.
The main purpose of that block is for readers to answer the question: "Do I have this same particular situation?"

I added a minimal version of such a Context, based on information in other parts of this pattern.
I would suggest to improve this further in future iterations of this pattern (but not important right now).

* Teams have trouble communicating exactly what the important aspects of
InnerSource are.

* People lacking open source experience fail to understand what it means to bring
open source best practices into the organisation.

* On a daily basis teams trying to follow InnerSource best practices have a hard
time deciding if what they are doing is inline with general InnerSource values.

> ## Solution
> 
> Those that should adopt InnerSource need to understand two perspectives:
> 
> ### Why does the organisation want to adopt InnerSource?
> 
> In the past InnerSource has proven to be successful to solve several issues
> commonly found in organisations. Instead of going for generalizations, try to
> exactly identify the solutions that match the challenges of your organisation -
> preferably with those affected by the change you want to see.
> 
> Some challenges that others have addressed by following InnerSource
> best practices:
> 
> * Reduce development silos caused by excessive ownership culture.
> * Increase innovation speed by reducing time spent solving similar issues by
>   fostering healthy code reuse.
> * Increase development speed by better cross team collaboration.
> * Solve project/ team dependencies beyond "wait it out" and "build workarounds",
>   thereby reducing engineering bottlenecks.
> * Increase quality.
> * Increase employee happiness.
> * To increase success of new hires.
> * To build actionable documentation.
> 
> ### Provide clear InnerSource principles
> 
> Once teams understand which problems InnerSource will help them address, the next
> step is to explain which principles help address these challenges.
> 
> Based on basic open source development principles the following guidelines
> have been proven successful:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Solution

Those driving the InnerSource initiative in the organisation need to help the teams and individuals that are lacking a deep background in open source, and therefore have a less intuitive understanding of InnerSource.

Clarity should be provided around these two areas:

### Why does the organisation want to adopt InnerSource?

In the past InnerSource has proven to be successful to solve several issues
commonly found in organisations. 

However which organizational challenges does your organization hope to improve
upon using InnerSource?

Instead of going for generalizations, try to exactly identify the solutions
that match the challenges of your organisation - preferably with those affected
by the change you want to see.

Some challenges that others have addressed by following InnerSource
best practices:

* Reduce development silos caused by excessive ownership culture.
* Increase innovation speed by reducing time spent solving similar issues by
  fostering healthy code reuse.
* Increase development speed by better cross-team collaboration.
* Solve project/ team dependencies beyond "wait it out" and "build workarounds",
  thereby reducing engineering bottlenecks.
* Increase quality.
* Increase employee happiness.
* To increase success of new hires.
* To build actionable documentation.

### Which InnerSource principles will help to address these challenges?

Once teams understand which problems InnerSource will help them address, the
next step is to explain which principles help address these challenges.

Based on basic open source development principles the following guidelines
have been proven successful:
```

Reviewer: @MaineC this is my best effort to change the Solution section so that both points speak to the same "persona".

Maybe not very easy to review so here a list of my changes:

- changed the intro sentence of the Solution section back to what it was
- added some more context in the intro to "Why does the organisation want to adopt InnerSource?"
- changed the headline of the 2nd point to "Which InnerSource principles will help to address these challenges?", to make this more similar to the wording of the 1st point

Author: I like the way you changed the perspective. One thing I would add is information on who people driving the InnerSource initiative need to provide this clarity to.

Reviewer: I changed the intro sentence to
> Those driving the InnerSource initiative in the organisation need to help the teams and individuals that are lacking a deep background in open source, and therefore have a less intuitive understanding of InnerSource.

Does that help?

> Those that should adopt InnerSource need to understand two perspectives:
> 
> ### Why does the organisation want to adopt InnerSource?
> 
> In the past InnerSource has proven to be successful to solve several issues
> commonly found in organisations. Instead of going for generalizations, try to
> exactly identify the solutions that match the challenges of your organisation -
> preferably with those affected by the change you want to see. 
> 
> Some challenges that others have addressed by following InnerSource 
> best practices:
> 
> * Reduce development silos caused by excessive ownership culture.
> * Increase innovation speed by reducing time spent solving similar issues by
>   fostering healthy code reuse.
> * Increase development speed by better cross team collaboration.
> * Solve project/ team dependencies beyond "wait it out" and "build workarounds",
>   thereby reducing engineering bottlenecks.
> * Increase quality.
> * Increase employee happiness.
> * To increase success of new hires.
> * To build actionable documentation.
> 
> ### Provide clear InnerSource principles
> 
> Once teams understand which problems InnerSource will help them address, the next
> step is to explain which principles help address these challenges. 
> 
> Based on basic open source development principles the following guidelines 
> have been proven successful:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those that should adopt InnerSource need to understand two perspectives:

### Why does the organisation want to adopt InnerSource?

In the past InnerSource has proven to be successful to solve several issues
commonly found in organisations. Instead of going for generalizations, try to
exactly identify the solutions that match the challenges of your organisation -
preferably with those affected by the change you want to see.

Some challenges that others have addressed by following InnerSource
best practices:

* Reduce development silos caused by excessive ownership culture.
* Increase innovation speed by reducing time spent solving similar issues by
  fostering healthy code reuse.
* Increase development speed by better cross team collaboration.
* Solve project/ team dependencies beyond "wait it out" and "build workarounds",
  thereby reducing engineering bottlenecks.
* Increase quality.
* Increase employee happiness.
* To increase success of new hires.
* To build actionable documentation.

### Provide clear InnerSource principles

Once teams understand which problems InnerSource will help them address, the next
step is to explain which principles help address these challenges.

Based on basic open source development principles the following guidelines
have been proven successful:
```

Fix linter issues

basis with a very low barrier to entry. If project relevant communication
happens through synchronous communication, arguments discussed need to be made
transparent in the written channel - decisions should be finalized only there.
As a side effect this leads to passive base documentation that is very valuable
for any newcomer to the project.

(5) Allow written advise to accumulate in a persistent, searchable archive

All project communication, in particular decisions taken and discussions leading
up to those decisions need to be archived. It must be possible to reference
communication via stable URLs. Previous communication needs to be stored in a
way that can easily be searched.

Two caveats though:

1. This does not replace structured documentation. It can serve as a starting point
to collect structured documentation though.

2. There are exceptions to the rule of everything being written and accessible to
the entire organisation: People related discussions as well as security related
discussions are sensitive and should not be held in public.

(6) Reward Trusted Committership

All contributions (e.g. source code, documentation, bug reports, input to

> discussions, user support, marketing) are welcome and are being rewarded. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
discussions, user support, marketing) are welcome and are being rewarded.
```

> 1. Code must be transparently hosted within the organisation
> 
> Source code, documentation, data relevant for project development must be
> available and easy to find for anyone in the organisation.
> 
> 2. Contributions over feature requests
> 
> All stakeholders of a project act as potential contributors and are being
> treated and supported as such. Contributions remain suggestions instead of
> requirements. Coordination before a contribution helps avoid wasted effort.
> Projects provide contribution guidelines to avoid friction.
> 
> 3. Mistakes are opportunities for learning
> 
> With work visible across the entire organisation any mistake is visible to
> everyone. As a result a culture must be established in which mistakes are
> opportunities for learning instead of failure that should be avoided at all
> cost.
> 
> 4. Written over verbal communication
> 
> For projects that span multiple teams, potentially on diverging meeting
> schedules, it needs to be possible to collaborate asynchronously. The goal for
> InnerSource projects is to recruit new contributors. For that, potential future
> contributors need to be able to follow the project progress on a self serve
> basis with a very low barrier to entry. If project relevant communication
> happens through synchronous communication, arguments discussed need to be made
> transparent in the written channel - decisions should be finalized only there.
> As a side effect this leads to passive base documentation that is very valuable
> for any newcomer to the project.
> 
> 5. Allow written advise to accumulate in a persistent, searchable archive
> 
> All project communication, in particular decisions taken and discussions leading
> up to those decisions need to be archived. It must be possible to reference
> communication via stable URLs. Previous communication needs to be stored in a
> way that can easily be searched.
> 
> Two caveats though:
> 
> 1. This does not replace structured documentation. It can serve as a starting point
> to collect structured documentation though.
> 
> 2. There are exceptions to the rule of everything being written and accessible to
> the entire organisation: People related discussions as well as security related
> discussions are sensitive and should not be held in public.
> 
> 6. Reward Trusted Committership
> 
> All contributions (e.g. source code, documentation, bug reports, input to
> discussions, user support, marketing) are welcome and are being rewarded. 
> Those showing support for the project are being invited as
> [Trusted Committers](../2-structured/trusted-committer.md). All Trusted Committers of a project are published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(1) Code must be transparently hosted within the organisation

Source code, documentation, data relevant for project development must be
available and easy to find for anyone in the organisation.

(2) Contributions over feature requests

All stakeholders of a project act as potential contributors and are being
treated and supported as such. Contributions remain suggestions instead of
requirements. Coordination before a contribution helps avoid wasted effort.
Projects provide contribution guidelines to avoid friction.

(3) Mistakes are opportunities for learning

With work visible across the entire organisation any mistake is visible to
everyone. As a result a culture must be established in which mistakes are
opportunities for learning instead of failure that should be avoided at all
cost.

(4) Written over verbal communication

For projects that span multiple teams, potentially on diverging meeting
schedules, it needs to be possible to collaborate asynchronously. The goal for
InnerSource projects is to recruit new contributors. For that, potential future
contributors need to be able to follow the project progress on a self serve
basis with a very low barrier to entry. If project relevant communication
happens through synchronous communication, arguments discussed need to be made
transparent in the written channel - decisions should be finalized only there.
As a side effect this leads to passive base documentation that is very valuable
for any newcomer to the project.

(5) Allow written advise to accumulate in a persistent, searchable archive

All project communication, in particular decisions taken and discussions leading
up to those decisions need to be archived. It must be possible to reference
communication via stable URLs. Previous communication needs to be stored in a
way that can easily be searched.

Two caveats though:

1. This does not replace structured documentation. It can serve as a starting point
to collect structured documentation though.

2. There are exceptions to the rule of everything being written and accessible to
the entire organisation: People related discussions as well as security related
discussions are sensitive and should not be held in public.

(6) Reward Trusted Committership

All contributions (e.g. source code, documentation, bug reports, input to
discussions, user support, marketing) are welcome and are being rewarded. 
Those showing support for the project are being invited as
[Trusted Committers](../2-structured/trusted-committer.md). All Trusted Committers of a project are published.
```

Markdown was trying to render these numbers as a numbered-list, which ended up looking odd.
This fixes that.

## Resulting Context

* Organisation members understand which challenges they can address by
applying InnerSource best practices.

* Organisation members lacking prior open source experience understand the basic
values and principles of InnerSource projects.

* Organisation members lacking prior open source experience are able to check
their daily doing against a set of common established values.

* The organisation's development practices become more similar to open source projects thus
making it easier for organisation members to participate in open source
projects.

## Known Instances

> * Europace AG (see also [Europace InnerSource Prinzipien](https://tech.europace.de/post/europace-inner-source-prinzipien/) (German))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Europace AG - see also [Europace InnerSource Prinzipien](https://tech.europace.de/post/europace-inner-source-prinzipien/) (German)
```

## Problem

The organisation is trying to role out InnerSource at a larger scale. The
initiative started among Open Source enthusiasts. The goal is now to get buy in
from people that are lacking Open Source experience. As a result the typical
slogan of "applying Open Source best practices" is not longer sufficient to
transport the message of what InnerSource is, which problems it solves and which
tools it uses for solving these issues.

## Context

In an organisation early experiments have shown that open source collaboration
best practices can be beneficial. The goal now is to move the initiative to
teams and individuals lacking a deep background in open source.

The goal now is to clearly communicate the goals of the InnerSource initiative
as well as a clear path towards achieving these goals.

## Forces

Teams have trouble communicating exactly what the important aspects of
InnerSource are.

People lacking open source experience fail to understand what it means to bring
open source best practices into the organisation.

On a daily basis teams trying to follow InnerSource best practices have a hard
time deciding if what they are doing is inline with general InnerSource values.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
